Team work is important; it helps to put the blame on someone else.
I named my hard drive "dat ass" so once a month my computer asks if I want to 'back dat ass up'.
Feeling pretty proud of myself. The Sesame Street puzzle I bought said 3-5 years, but I finished it in 18 months.
I used to think I was indecisive, but now I'm not too sure.
Today a man knocked on my door and asked for a small donation towards the local swimming pool. I gave him a glass of water.
Just read that 4,153,237 people got married last year, not to cause any trouble but shouldn't that be an even number?
You know you're ugly when it comes to a group picture and they hand you the camera.
I want to die peacefully in my sleep, like my grandfather.. Not screaming and yelling like the passengers in his car.
When my boss asked me who is the stupid one, me or him? I told him everyone knows he doesn't hire stupid people.
I find it ironic that the colors red, white, and blue stand for freedom until they are flashing behind you.
A recent study has found that women who carry a little extra weight live longer than the men who mention it.
You know that tingly little feeling you get when you like someone? That's your common sense leaving your body.
What do you have to do to have a party in space? You have to Planet.
Politicians and diapers have one thing in common. They should both be changed regularly, and for the same reason.
I can totally keep secrets. It's the people I tell them to that can't.
Relationships are a lot like algebra. Have you ever looked at your X and wondered Y?
Apparently I snore so loudly that it scares everyone in the car I'm driving.
If at first you don't succeed, we have a lot in common.
Intelligence is like an underwear. It is important that you have it, but not necessary that you show it off.
If you're not supposed to eat at night, why is there a light bulb in the refrigerator?
If you think nobody cares whether you're alive, try missing a couple of payments.
I asked God for a bike, but I know God doesn't work that way. So I stole a bike and asked for forgiveness.
Any married man should forget his mistakes, there's no use in two people remembering the same thing.
Artificial intelligence is no match for natural stupidity.
Money talks ...but all mine ever says is good-bye.
Whatever you do always give 100 %. Unless you are donating blood.
My favorite mythical creature? The honest politician.
I sometimes watch birds and wonder "If I could fly who would I shit on?"
A clean house is the sign of a broken computer.
I hate when I am about to hug someone really sexy and my face hits the mirror.
I am a nobody, nobody is perfect, therefore I am perfect.
